metrics_computation_engine/plugins/adapters/ragas_adapter/README.md, before:

# MCE Ragas Adapter

A Python adapter library that integrates [Ragas](https://github.com/explodinggradients/ragas) metrics as third-party plugins for the [Metric Computation Engine (MCE)](https://github.com/agntcy/telemetry-hub/tree/main/metrics_computation_engine). This adapter enables seamless use of Ragas's LLM evaluation metrics within the MCE framework for evaluating agentic applications.

## Installation

```bash
pip install mce-ragas-adapter
```

## Prerequisites

- [Metric Computation Engine (MCE)](https://github.com/agntcy/telemetry-hub/tree/main/metrics_computation_engine) installed
- Agentic applications instrumented with [AGNTCY's observe SDK](https://github.com/agntcy/observe)

## Supported Ragas Metrics

The adapter supports a wide range of Ragas metrics, including but not limited to:

- **TopicAdherenceScore** - Evaluates whether the model response adheres to the intended topic from the user request.

For a complete list of supported metrics, refer to the Ragas documentation. Many metrics in this library will require context which this adapter does not yet support. As we confirm compatibility of metrics, we will add it to the above list.

## Usage

### Basic Usage

```python
import asyncio
from mce_ragas_adapter.adapter import RagasMetricAdapter
from metrics_computation_engine.models.requests import LLMJudgeConfig
from metrics_computation_engine.registry import MetricRegistry

# Initialize LLM configuration
llm_config = LLMJudgeConfig(
    LLM_BASE_MODEL_URL="https://api.openai.com/v1",
    LLM_MODEL_NAME="gpt-4o",
    LLM_API_KEY="your-api-key-here"
)

# Create registry and register Ragas metrics
registry = MetricRegistry()

# Method 1: Direct registration with metric name
registry.register_metric(RagasMetricAdapter, "TopicAdherenceScore")

# Method 2: Using get_metric_class helper with prefix
from metrics_computation_engine.util import get_metric_class
metric, metric_name = get_metric_class("ragas.TopicAdherenceScore")
registry.register_metric(metric, metric_name)
```

### Using with MCE REST API

When using the MCE as a service, include Ragas metrics in your API request:

```json
{
  "metrics": [
    "ragas.TopicAdherenceScore"
  ],
  "llm_judge_config": {
    "LLM_API_KEY": "your-api-key",
    "LLM_MODEL_NAME": "gpt-4o",
    "LLM_BASE_MODEL_URL": "https://api.openai.com/v1"
  },
  "batch_config": {
    "num_sessions": 10
  }
}
```

## Configuration

### Environment Variables

Set up your environment variables for LLM access:

```bash
# .env file
LLM_BASE_MODEL_URL=https://api.openai.com/v1
LLM_MODEL_NAME=gpt-4o
LLM_API_KEY=sk-your-openai-api-key
```

## Supported Aggregation Levels

The adapter maps Ragas metrics to different aggregation levels:

- **Span Level**: Evaluate individual agent interactions or tool calls
- **Session Level**: Evaluate complete conversation sessions

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please follow these steps to contribute:

1. Fork the repository.
2. Create a new branch (`git checkout -b feature-branch`).
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add new feature'`).
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature-branch`).
5. Create a new Pull Request.

Commit message:

docs: Documentation update for all READMEs amidst refactor  (#76)
* docs: cleanup and readme updates with latest changes

Signed-off-by: Kevin Payumo <kpayumo@cisco.com>

* docs: core README.md update v2

Signed-off-by: Kevin Payumo <kpayumo@cisco.com>

* docs: core README.md update v3

Signed-off-by: Kevin Payumo <kpayumo@cisco.com>

* docs: core README.md update v4

Signed-off-by: Kevin Payumo <kpayumo@cisco.com>

* docs: updating the .env instructions

Signed-off-by: Kevin Payumo <kpayumo@cisco.com>

* docs: updating with curl call example

Signed-off-by: Kevin Payumo <kpayumo@cisco.com>

* docs: updating with curl call example

Signed-off-by: Kevin Payumo <kpayumo@cisco.com>

* docs: consolidating deployment instructions

Signed-off-by: Kevin Payumo <kpayumo@cisco.com>

* docs: updating plugin READMEs

Signed-off-by: Kevin Payumo <kpayumo@cisco.com>

* docs: README cleanup and documentation consistency of the mce_plugin_metrics

Signed-off-by: Kevin Payumo <kpayumo@cisco.com>

* style: precommit

Signed-off-by: Kevin Payumo <kpayumo@cisco.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Kevin Payumo <kpayumo@cisco.com>

metrics_computation_engine/plugins/adapters/ragas_adapter/README.md, after:

# MCE Ragas Adapter

A Python adapter library that integrates [Ragas](https://github.com/explodinggradients/ragas) metrics as third-party plugins for the [Metric Computation Engine (MCE)](https://github.com/agntcy/telemetry-hub/tree/main/metrics_computation_engine). This adapter enables seamless use of Ragas's LLM evaluation metrics within the MCE framework for evaluating agentic applications.

## Installation

Install via MCE extras:
```bash
pip install "metrics-computation-engine[ragas]"
```

## Prerequisites

- [Metric Computation Engine (MCE)](https://github.com/agntcy/telemetry-hub/tree/main/metrics_computation_engine) installed
- Agentic applications instrumented with [AGNTCY's observe SDK](https://github.com/agntcy/observe)

## Supported Ragas Metrics

The following Ragas metrics are supported by this adapter (use with the `ragas.` prefix in service payloads):

| Metric Name | Description |
| :---------: | :---------- |
| **TopicAdherenceScore** | Evaluates whether the model response adheres to the intended topic |

For requests to support additional Ragas metrics, please file an issue in our repo: [agntcy/telemetry-hub](https://github.com/agntcy/telemetry-hub).

## Usage

### Basic Usage

```python
import asyncio
from mce_ragas_adapter.adapter import RagasMetricAdapter
from metrics_computation_engine.models.requests import LLMJudgeConfig
from metrics_computation_engine.registry import MetricRegistry

# Initialize LLM configuration
llm_config = LLMJudgeConfig(
    LLM_BASE_MODEL_URL="https://api.openai.com/v1",
    LLM_MODEL_NAME="gpt-4o",
    LLM_API_KEY="your-api-key-here"
)

# Create registry and register Ragas metrics
registry = MetricRegistry()

# Method 1: Direct registration with metric name
registry.register_metric(RagasMetricAdapter, "TopicAdherenceScore")

# Method 2: Using get_metric_class helper with prefix
from metrics_computation_engine.util import get_metric_class
metric, metric_name = get_metric_class("ragas.TopicAdherenceScore")
registry.register_metric(metric, metric_name)
```

### Using with MCE REST API

When using the MCE as a service, include Ragas metrics in your API request:

```json
{
  "metrics": [
    "ragas.TopicAdherenceScore"
  ],
  "llm_judge_config": {
    "LLM_API_KEY": "your-api-key",
    "LLM_MODEL_NAME": "gpt-4o",
    "LLM_BASE_MODEL_URL": "https://api.openai.com/v1"
  },
  "data_fetching_infos": {
    "batch_config": {
      "time_range": { "start": "2024-01-01T00:00:00Z", "end": "2024-12-31T23:59:59Z" }
    },
    "session_ids": []
  }
}
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please follow these steps to contribute:

1. Fork the repository.
2. Create a new branch (`git checkout -b feature-branch`).
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add new feature'`).
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature-branch`).
5. Create a new Pull Request.
